#summary Introduction Page and howto get started

= Introduction =

Download the code in the Download section. There are two folders each with Howtos that will get you started with the RF code.

Folder RF_Reg_C contains code for regression Random Forest

Folder RF_Class_C contains code for classification Random Forest

Easiest way to start is to look for tutorial`_``*`.m file within these folders and read the README.txt

= Linux Compiling =

Compiling: With g++ and gfortran installed for Linux everything should be set except do remove -ansi flag from mexopts.sh in ~/.matlab/Rversion/mexopts.sh Rversion will be dependent on the matlab version installed. That ansi flag will not allow // type comments in the source files. Other instructions in README.txt

= Windows Compiling =

Compiling rfsub.o (from the fortran source in rfsub.f) for win64 was via a cross-compiler on linux, whereas rfsub.o for win32 was via cygwin. Cygwin in current form generates only 32 bit binaries thereby requiring a cross compiler.

For windows compiling of the mex files, precompiled rfsub.o are present and used instead of depending on a fortran compiler. Only requirement is some form of Visual C++ is installed either via express or full version of Visual Studio and appropriate setup of matlab to use Visual studio is done.


For both windows and linux, compilers can be set via *mex -setup* on matlab's command window.

= Mac =
For the mac, you have good support for gcc and gfortran. These two programs will be needed to compile the code.
Before installing anything check for compatibility http://www.mathworks.com/support/compilers/previous_releases.html

The below are probable tools that might help you installing gcc/gfortran. Once the tools are installed, the compile_linux.m file should work for your mac system.

http://r.research.att.com/tools/

Apple also has developer tools (Xcode tools) that has gcc http://developer.apple.com/documentation/Porting/Conceptual/PortingUNIX/preparing/preparing.html

Another tool that also has gcc/gfortran is fink http://www.finkproject.org/

Once you get the compiler installed. http://www.mathworks.com/support/tech-notes/1600/1605.html#setup to setup the compiler to be used with matlab, with the mex -setup command

Note the mex options file name that matlab copies to. [Rare: Sometimes that mex option file has -ansi flag included that makes compilers cringe if C code contains // for comments. Remove -ansi flag from the file if it does.]

An slight edit of the makefile might be required.